# CSV2DS

When discussing features or asking for programming help, sharing a minimum 
working example (MWE) is often required. In my experience with SAS software, the
data source causing questions is often not directly entered into a SAS 
data step but brought in from an outside source such as an Excel or CSV file
or similar. When creating an MWE it is then necessary to manually create a 
data step. This program is intended to make that process quicker and easier. 
The goal of the program is to iterate over a given CSV file and convert it 
to a simple SAS data step template.

## Usage

Pass the name of a file or a `-` to process input from the command line:

```sh
csv2ds file1.csv // creates a data file1 statement from file1.csv contents
csv2ds -         // creates a data SAMPLEDATA statement from STDIN contents
```

Reading from the command line allows for input to be piped to CSV2DS. 
The idea behind that is compatibility with [CSVKIT](https://github.com/wireservice/csvkit).

A list of data steps can be generated by passing multiple files to CSV2DS. 
STDIN and files can be combined:

```sh
cat file1.csv | csv2ds - file2.csv file3.csv
```

## Installation
This package can be installed with the standard Go toolchain.

```sh
go install github.com/dmsenter89/csv2ds@latest
```

## Limitations

This program is still quite basic. It uses fairly simplistic parsing to guess
whether a particular column is numeric or not, in which case it defaults to a
string representation. A length statement is added to correctly read in string
arguments without truncation. If special formats or dates are used, manual
intervention will be needed to have SAS process the inputs as desired. 